In this video, I'll review
the different types of
attention mechanisms in
the transformer model,
and you will see how to
compute masked self-attention.
First, you will see what
the three main ways of
attention in the
transformer model are.
Afterwards, I'll show you
a brief overview of
masked self-attention.
One of the attention
mechanisms in
a transformer model is
the familiar
encoder-decoder attention.
In that mechanism,
the words in one sentence attend
to all other words
in another one.
That is, the queries come from
one sentence while the keys
and values come from another.
You've already used this
kind of attention in
the translation task
from last week,
where the words from
sentences in French
attended towards from
sentences in English.
Self-attention, the queries,
keys, and values come
from the same sentence.
Every word attends to every
other word in the sequence.
This type of attention
lets you get
contextual representations
of your words.
In other terms,
self-attention gives you
a representation of the meaning
of each word within
the sentence.
Finally, in masked
self-attention queries,
keys and values also come
from the same sentence,
but each query cannot attend
to keys on future positions.
This attention
mechanism is present
in the decoder from
the transformer model
and ensures that predictions at
each position depend only
on the known outputs.
Mathematically,
self-attention works
precisely as the
encoder-decoder attention.
The only difference
is the nature of
the inputs for each mechanism.
Let's focus on masked
self-attention.
Recall that the scale
dot-product attention
requires the calculation of
the softmax of the
scaled products
between the queries and the
transpose of the key matrix.
Then for mask self-attention,
you add a mask matrix
within the softmax.
The mask has a zero on
all of its positions,
except for the elements
above the diagonal,
which are set to minus infinity.
Or in practice, a
huge negative number.
After taking the softmax,
this addition ensures
that the elements in
the weights matrix are zero for
all the keys and the subsequent
positions to the query.
In the end, as with the
other types of attention,
you multiply the weights
matrix by the value matrix
to get the context vector for
each query, and that's it.
You only need to
add a matrix within
the softmax to ensure
that the queries don't
attend to future positions.
In this video, I showed you
the three main
ways of attention.
Encoder-decoder attention,
self-attention, and
masked self-attention.
In masked self-attention,
queries and keys are contained
in the same sentence,
but queries can not attend
to future positions.
You have seen many types
of attention so far.
In the next video,
I'll show you the
multi-headed attention.
It is a very powerful form of
attention that allows
for parallel computing.